Add documentation page for how to install Grafana and GE on K8s (#32008)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/installation/kubernetes.md

---

> title: Deploy on Kubernetes

Reviewer: +++
title = "Deploy Grafana on Kubernetes"
description = "Guide for deploying Grafana on Kubernetes"
keywords = ["grafana", "configuration", "documentation", "kubernetes"]
weight = 700
+++

---
title: Deploy on Kubernetes
weight: 2
---

## Deploy Grafana on Kubernetes

This page explains how to install and run Grafana on Kubernetes (K8S). It uses Kubernetes manifests for the setup. If you prefer Helm, refer to the [Grafana Helm community charts](https://github.com/grafana/helm-charts). 

If you are interested in Grafana Enterprise (not Grafana OS), jump to [Deploy Grafana Enterprise on Kubernetes](#deploy-grafana-enterprise-on-kubernetes) section.

#### Create Grafana Kubernetes manifest

> 1. Create the file `grafana.yaml`, then paste the following contents in it. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create the `grafana.yaml` file, then paste the content below. 
```

  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: grafana
    spec:
      containers:
        - image: grafana/grafana:latest
          imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
          name: grafana
          ports:
            - containerPort: 3000
              name: http-grafana
              protocol: TCP
          readinessProbe:
            failureThreshold: 3
            httpGet:
              path: /robots.txt
              port: 3000
              scheme: HTTP
            initialDelaySeconds: 10
            periodSeconds: 30
            successThreshold: 1
            timeoutSeconds: 2
          resources:
            limits:
              memory: 4Gi
            requests:
              cpu: 100m
              memory: 2Gi
          volumeMounts:
            - mountPath: /var/lib/grafana
              name: grafana
      volumes:
        - name: grafana
          persistentVolumeClaim:
            claimName: grafana
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: grafana
spec:
  ports:
    - port: 3000
      protocol: TCP
      targetPort: http-grafana
  selector:
    app: grafana
  sessionAffinity: None
  type: LoadBalancer
```

### Send manifest to Kubernetes API server

> 

Reviewer: 1. Run the following command:

```bash
kubectl apply -f grafana.yaml
```

1. Check that it worked by running the following:
```bash
kubectl port-forward service/grafana 3000:3000
```
Now if you navigate to `localhost:3000` in your browser, you should see a Grafana login page. 

> 1. Use `admin` for both the username and password to login.

Author: is the idea that I had a 1. here and and 1. immediately prior? or should this be a 2.?

Reviewer: All numbered list should start with 1. They get rendered correctly. For more information, check the style guide :)

              protocol: TCP
          readinessProbe:
            failureThreshold: 3
            httpGet:
              path: /robots.txt
              port: 3000
              scheme: HTTP
            initialDelaySeconds: 10
            periodSeconds: 30
            successThreshold: 1
            timeoutSeconds: 2
          resources:
            limits:
              memory: 4Gi
            requests:
              cpu: 100m
              memory: 2Gi
          volumeMounts:
            - mountPath: /var/lib/grafana
              name: grafana
            - mountPath: /etc/grafana
              name: ge-config
            - mountPath: /etc/grafana/license
              name: ge-license
      volumes:
        - name: grafana
          persistentVolumeClaim:
            claimName: grafana
        - name: ge-config
          configMap:
            name: ge-config
        - name: ge-license
          secret:
            secretName: ge-license
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: grafana
spec:
  ports:
    - port: 3000
      protocol: TCP
      targetPort: http-grafana
  selector:
    app: grafana
  sessionAffinity: None
  type: LoadBalancer
```
 

> 1. Send manifest to Kubernetes API Server

Author: @achatterjee-grafana here I changed this to a 1. based on your suggestion, but above I have this as a heading with 3 #'s.

```bash
kubectl apply -f grafana.yaml
```

> 2. Check that it worked

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Check that it worked by running the following:
```

```bash
kubectl port-forward service/grafana 3000:3000
```

> Now if you navigate to `localhost:3000` in your browser, you should see a Grafana login page. Use `admin` for both the username and password values to login.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now if you navigate to `localhost:3000` in your browser, you should see the Grafana login page. 

1. Use `admin` for both the username and password to login.
```

            timeoutSeconds: 2
          resources:
            limits:
              memory: 4Gi
            requests:
              cpu: 100m
              memory: 2Gi
          volumeMounts:
            - mountPath: /var/lib/grafana
              name: grafana
      volumes:
        - name: grafana
          persistentVolumeClaim:
            claimName: grafana
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: grafana
spec:
  ports:
    - port: 3000
      protocol: TCP
      targetPort: http-grafana
  selector:
    app: grafana
  sessionAffinity: None
  type: LoadBalancer
```

### Send manifest to Kubernetes API server

```bash
kubectl apply -f grafana.yaml
```

1. Check that it worked by running the following:
```bash
kubectl port-forward service/grafana 3000:3000
```
Now if you navigate to `localhost:3000` in your browser, you should see a Grafana login page. 

1. Use `admin` for both the username and password to login.

## Deploy Grafana Enterprise on Kubernetes
The process for deploying Grafana Enterprise is almost identical to the process above, except for some extra steps required to add in your license file.

### Obtain Grafana Enterprise license

> To run Grafana Enterprise, you need a valid license. To obtain a license, [contact a Grafana Labs representative](https://grafana.com/contact?about=grafana-enterprise). This guide will assume you already have done this and have a `license.jwt` file. Your license should also be associated with a URL, which we will use further down in this guide. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run Grafana Enterprise, you need a valid license. [Contact a Grafana Labs representative](https://grafana.com/contact?about=grafana-enterprise) to obtain the license. This topic assumes that you already have done this and have a `license.jwt` file. Your license should also be associated with a URL, which we will use later in the topic. 
```

---
title: Deploy on Kubernetes
weight: 2
---

## Deploy Grafana on Kubernetes

> This guide will walk you through how to install and run Grafana on Kubernetes (K8S). It will use Kubernetes manifests for the setup. For those who prefer Helm, please see the [Grafana Helm Community Charts](https://github.com/grafana/helm-charts). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page explains how to install and run Grafana on Kubernetes (K8S). It uses Kubernetes manifests for the setup. If you prefer Helm, refer to the [Grafana Helm community charts](https://github.com/grafana/helm-charts). 
```

> For those interested in Grafana Enterprise (not Grafana OS), please jump to [Deploy Grafana Enterprise on Kubernetes](#deploy-grafana-enterprise-on-kubernetes)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are interested in Grafana Enterprise (not Grafana OS), jump to [Deploy Grafana Enterprise on Kubernetes](#deploy-grafana-enterprise-on-kubernetes) section.
```

#### Create Grafana Kubernetes manifest

> Create a file called `grafana.yaml` and paste the following contents in. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create the file `grafana.yaml`, then paste the following contents in it. 
```

    matchLabels:
      app: grafana
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: grafana
    spec:
      containers:
        - image: grafana/grafana:latest
          imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
          name: grafana
          ports:
            - containerPort: 3000
              name: http-grafana
              protocol: TCP
          readinessProbe:
            failureThreshold: 3
            httpGet:
              path: /robots.txt
              port: 3000
              scheme: HTTP
            initialDelaySeconds: 10
            periodSeconds: 30
            successThreshold: 1
            timeoutSeconds: 2
          resources:
            limits:
              memory: 4Gi
            requests:
              cpu: 100m
              memory: 2Gi
          volumeMounts:
            - mountPath: /var/lib/grafana
              name: grafana
      volumes:
        - name: grafana
          persistentVolumeClaim:
            claimName: grafana
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: grafana
spec:
  ports:
    - port: 3000
      protocol: TCP
      targetPort: http-grafana
  selector:
    app: grafana
  sessionAffinity: None
  type: LoadBalancer
```

> ### Send manifest to Kubernetes API Server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Send manifest to Kubernetes API server
```

> ### Send manifest to Kubernetes API Server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Send manifest to Kubernetes API server by runing the following command to create the necessary resources in your cluster.
```

> Run the following command to create the necessary resources in your cluster. 

Reviewer: Remove

```bash
kubectl apply -f grafana.yaml
```

> ### Check that it worked

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Check that it worked by running the following:
```

> Run the following: 

Reviewer: Remove

```bash
kubectl port-forward service/grafana 3000:3000
```

> Now if you navigate to `localhost:3000` in your browser, you should see a Grafana login page. Use `admin` for both the username and password values to login.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now if you navigate to `localhost:3000` in your browser, you should see a Grafana login page. 

1. Use `admin` for both the username and password to login.
```

## Deploy Grafana Enterprise on Kubernetes

> The process for deploying Grafana Enterprise is almost identical to the process above, except for some extra steps required to add in your license file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The process for deploying Grafana Enterprise is almost identical to the process above, except for some extra steps required to add in your license file. They are described in the following sections.
```

> ### Obtain Grafana Enterprise License

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Obtain Grafana Enterprise license
```

To run Grafana Enterprise, you need a valid license. To obtain a license, [contact a Grafana Labs representative](https://grafana.com/contact?about=grafana-enterprise). This guide will assume you already have done this and have a `license.jwt` file. Your license should also be associated with a URL, which we will use further down in this guide. 

### Create License Secret
Create a Kubernetes secret from your license file using the following command:
```bash
kubectl create secret generic ge-license --from-file=/path/to/your/license.jwt
```

> ### Create Grafana Enterprise Config

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create Grafana Enterprise configuration
```

> Create a Grafana config file by creating a new file called `grafana.ini` and pasting in the contents below. You will have to update the `root_url` field to the url associated with the license you were given. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a Grafana configuration file with the name `grafana.ini`. Then paste the content below. 
>**Note:** You will have to update the `root_url` field to the url associated with the license you were given. 
```

```yaml
[enterprise]
license_path = /etc/grafana/license/license.jwt
[server]
root_url =/your/license/root/url

```

### Create Configmap for Grafana Enterprise Config
Create a Kubernetes Configmap from your `grafana.ini` file with the following command:
```bash
kubectl create configmap ge-config --from-file=/path/to/your/config.ini
```
### Create Grafana Enterprise Kubernetes manifest

> Create a file called `grafana.yaml` and paste the following contents in. This yaml is identical to the yaml for the OS install except for the additional references to the Configmap that contains your Grafana config file and the Secret that contains your license.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a `grafana.yaml` file, then paste the content below. This YAML is identical to the one for Grafana OS install except for the additional references to the Configmap which has your Grafana configuration file and the Secret that has your license. 
```

              protocol: TCP
          readinessProbe:
            failureThreshold: 3
            httpGet:
              path: /robots.txt
              port: 3000
              scheme: HTTP
            initialDelaySeconds: 10
            periodSeconds: 30
            successThreshold: 1
            timeoutSeconds: 2
          resources:
            limits:
              memory: 4Gi
            requests:
              cpu: 100m
              memory: 2Gi
          volumeMounts:
            - mountPath: /var/lib/grafana
              name: grafana
            - mountPath: /etc/grafana
              name: ge-config
            - mountPath: /etc/grafana/license
              name: ge-license
      volumes:
        - name: grafana
          persistentVolumeClaim:
            claimName: grafana
        - name: ge-config
          configMap:
            name: ge-config
        - name: ge-license
          secret:
            secretName: ge-license
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: grafana
spec:
  ports:
    - port: 3000
      protocol: TCP
      targetPort: http-grafana
  selector:
    app: grafana
  sessionAffinity: None
  type: LoadBalancer
```
 

> ### Send manifest to Kubernetes API Server

Reviewer: Make this a numbered step.

Run the following command to create the necessary resources in your cluster. 
```bash
kubectl apply -f grafana.yaml
```

> ### Check that it worked

Reviewer: Make this a numbered step, as shown above in line 99.

Run the following: 
```bash
kubectl port-forward service/grafana 3000:3000
```
Now if you navigate to `localhost:3000` in your browser, you should see a Grafana login page. Use `admin` for both the username and password values to login.

A successful Grafana Enterprise installation with a valid license should show an opened lock icon when you mouse over the shield icon in the left menu bar. You can also verify by scrolling down to the bottom of the page.

> ![lock_ge](../../lock_ge.png "Showing left menu")

Author: I'd like to add 2 images in here, but not sure where I'm supposed to put them. This attempt I was doing was not working (I was trying to put them in grafana/docs) and I don't think its likely the right place. I see some images in grafana/public/img but when I tried putting the images in there, I still had the same path problems that the images wouldn't render.

Reviewer 2: @09jvilla, @osg-grafana or I can show you where to put the images. It's kind of weird, and mentioned in the [Grafana docs folder README](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/tree/master/docs#add-images).
